How are you this morning?
You guys are awake.
You must have had some rest this week, have you?
No, y'all after that one.
I got you turning your Bibles if you have them with you to John chapter 8 verse number 31.
While you're turning there, let me say good morning to those who may be joining us online and also to welcome you to family worship today.
Where's all of our kiddos?
If your kiddos are awake, say, oh, yeah.
The adults are more awake than the kids.
I knew we needed Mountain Dew this morning.
All right.
No, we'd never give your kids Mountain Dew without your permission, but we're so thankful for these days, not just because the kids get to come in here and hang out with us, but also because it gives our volunteers a chance to recuperate, to take a break.
If you're a volunteer who serves in any next generation ministry, would you just put your hand up?
Keep them up.
I just want us to look across the room.
and see how many we have here.
Would you guys let us lead each other to know how much we appreciate the ministry that they do?
And I got to confess, I hate the term volunteer.
I really, really hate it.
I wish there was a better term that would encapsulate what it means to be called and equipped to ministry because everyone who serves in ministry has been called and equipped, right?
And so we are so thankful for those volunteers who work each week
to take care of our children, to pour into our kids, to partner with families so that we can make disciples everywhere.
I love Chuck Swindall, and I read a book many years ago called The Grace Awakening.
And in this book, he draws a parallel between our spiritual condition and the conditions in the South following the Civil War.
In the middle of the war, Abraham Lincoln began to see something happening
as the states were in, in battle against each other, that the slaves of the south were beginning to migrate north to come over that line and wanted to join the Union army.
And so September 22, 1862, Abraham Lincoln wrote what we call today an executive order that would free the slaves.
It's called the Emancipation Proclamation.
And in that, in those bordering states, those that had rebelled against the Union, he said those slaves are now free.
And at that point, it freed 3.1 million of 4 million slaves in America.
Now later toward the end of the Civil War, the Senate would vote in 1864 for the 13th Amendment that would later be passed by the House of Representatives before the war ended.
The war ends in April 1865 and by the end of that year, three-fourths of the United States had ratified the 13th amendment to the Constitution, which that last state happened to be ours, Georgia.
But here's the sad tragedy that even though the slaves had been set free, there were many pockets within the South where those slaves who had now been set free did not know they were free.
The taskmasters on those plantations were continuing to whip and to drive and to make those slaves do work.
They had no clue that they had been set free.
And Chuck Swindall draws a parallel between that and Christians who still live under the bondage of the sin of which they've been forgiven and set free.
And he says this, even though our great emancipator Christ the Lord paid the ultimate price
to overthrow slavery once for all, most Christians act as though they're still held in bondage.
In fact, strange as it is, most seem to prefer the security of slavery to the risks of liberty.
And our slave master Satan loves it so.
And it is sad.
I think the saddest state that a Christian can be in
is one who has claimed to know Jesus Christ, but still lives in the bondage of sin.
There's a huge difference that if sin is that direction, and I'm claiming to know Jesus and I'm running to that sin, then someone who has repented and turned away from that sin and is going in opposite direction.
I think we all agree Christian sin, right?
Yes or no.
But for those of us that know Jesus Christ, we have an advocate through Christ,
for our sins to be forgiven, right?
1 John 1 9 says, if we confess our sins, he is faithful, as we saying, and just to forgive us of our sins and cleanse us from unrighteousness.
But far too many Christians still live under the weight of the sin from which they have been set free.
It would be no different that if we as Americans were still living under the laws
of Britain, even though we had declared independence in 1776.
A change in life is necessary if we are going to live as free men.
And it's hard to do, isn't it?
How many of you in this room have a sin problem?
Don't raise your hands.
Don't tell on yourself.
Everybody has a sin problem.
That's why we needed Jesus, right?
There is no way that you and I can set ourselves free from sin.
That's why the truth is true freedom is found only in Jesus Christ.
Because if we have a sin problem, we have a death problem, right?
But Jesus Christ died on the cross so that our sin that could be paid, right?
But it didn't stop there.
Where's my kids in the house?
What happened to Jesus on Easter?
What?
I heard it.
He was raised from the dead by the power of the Holy Spirit proving that death no longer was an issue.
Why do you think the disciples continued in the ministry of Jesus, even though all of them but one died of martyrs death?
Because they knew Jesus had the power to raise them from the dead.
And for us who had that same power living inside of us, why would we continue walking in the path of sin when we had been set free from it and giving a life
that is far more abundant than anything sin will ever deliver to us.
In fact, there was a slave interviewed in 1864 that Shelby Foote wrote about and he said this, I don't know nothing about Abraham Lincoln.
He replied, sipped that he said is free and he said, I don't know about that either.
Following the emancipation proclamation, being declared free yet still living as a slave.
But you know, there's good news.
Our independence day came when Jesus Christ came up out of that grave.
When Christ was raised from the dead, He proved to all of us that sin had been defeated because Jesus paid our sin debt.
And for those that are sitting in these graves all around this world, there's a day coming when Jesus is going to come back and He's going to raise those people back from the dead.
Those of us who are here when it happens, if we've believed in Jesus, we're going to be called up with them and we'll live forever.
I want to partake in that, don't you?
Because the other route isn't too pretty.
I don't want to be stuck in my sin then, and I don't want to be stuck in my sin now.
Those plantation owners had a saying, keep them ignorant and you'll keep them in the field.
Satan's philosopher, you and me, is keep them ignorant and you'll keep them impotent.
If he can keep us stuck in our sin, then we're not gonna tell people about the light of the gospel, are we?
Because we're not living in that light.
And so I'd like to ask you to stand with me as we read through this paragraph found in John eight, starting with verse number 31.
It says this, so Jesus was saying to those Jews who had believed him, if you continue in my word, then you are truly disciples of mine.
I love that phrase, truly disciples.
So there is,
A difference and you will know the truth and the truth will make you free.
That is not some nugget that a lawyer finds and brings into the court to get someone off the hook.
There's a whole different concept in this chapter about the truth.
He goes on to say they answered him.
We are Abraham's descendants and have never been enslaved to anyone.
Good joke.
And how is that you say you will become free?
Jesus answered them, truly, truly, I say to you, everyone who commits sin is the slave of sin.
Whether you've done one, 10 or 10 million, you are a slave of sin.
The slave does not remain in the house forever because he's a slave, but who does?
The son remains forever.
So if the son makes you free, not that truth, if the son makes you free, you,
are free indeed.
Did y'all hear that?
If the sun makes you free, you are free indeed, not Independence Day.
If the sun, I'm gonna say it till we get it.
If the sun has set you free, you are free indeed.
You didn't do it.
I didn't do it.
The government didn't do it.
Jesus Christ did it.
I know that you are Abraham's descendants and he's probably thinking in his mind, you've told me a million times.
Yet you seek to kill me.
Why?
Because my word has no place in you.
Then he makes a contrast.
I speak the things which I have seen with my father, therefore also you do the things which you have heard from your father.
And if you read on down through there, basically you're going to call them the sons of the devil.
Why?
Because they have rejected Jesus for who he is and for what he has said.
Let's pray.
Father, as we spend the next few minutes taking
your word and going through it, I pray father that we can gain a greater appreciation for the freedom that we have in Jesus Christ.
And everyone said, Amen.
Now, years ago, I won't do it this morning, but when I was a child, I used to go around and sing at different churches.
And then my voice changed.
And it wasn't pretty.
You've never been more humiliated than when you pull an alfalfa in front of a church.
Do you know what alfalfa is?
When you should go, he really had, and I did that.
I never sang again.
Until I got older and I could control my baritone voice.
But as I was a child and I was singing, I used to sing a song by Dottie Rambo called, Remind Me Dear Lord.
And the chorus goes something like this.
Roll back the curtains.
I scared you, didn't I?
You thought I was going to sing.
Roll back the curtains of memories now and then.
Show me where you brought me from and where I could have been.
Remember I'm human and humans forget.
So remind me, remind me, dear Lord.
And the tragedy sometimes in Christianity is we get so far removed after we've been saved that we get over being saved.
We forget that the whole reason that we came to know Jesus Christ in the first place was because we were poor, destitute and dead in our trespasses.
And we forget that our freedom, when we experience freedom, it begins with realizing the gravity of bondage.
When I ask kids, what's the worst thing that you've ever done?
A few weeks ago, a little girl told me, well, I've never done anything wrong.
So I say, well, let me ask you, what's the worst thing you could do?
And sometimes in their innocence, they can't answer that question.
But adults, let me ask you the question.
As a sinner, what is the worst thing that you could do?
You may not have ever done it, but Jesus even confronts that in Matthew chapter five when he says, if you looked on a woman and lusted after her, you've committed
adultery.
If you've hated your brother, it's as if you have killed him.
And so for you and me to stand here today in our freedom, we forget that there was a great, great chasm that we found ourselves in when Jesus saved us from our sin.
And so he begins to talk to these Jews that the Bible said had believed.
Well, we don't really know what they believed, but this belief they had was not a belief until salvation.
So Jesus was saying to the Jews who had believed, if you continue in my word, if you continue in my word, why would they believe Jesus and not take what he said at heart?
Well, I believe there was two things going on.
Number one, Jesus was trying to convey to them God sent him.
The father had sent him, and in previous chapters we read that when he called God my father, he was making himself equal
and God.
He was God in the flesh and they could not accept that.
Because if they accepted Him as true, then they had to accept what He said as true.
You know, over the years I've talked to different people about how they know if they're saved or not saved.
You know where I've landed?
What does Jesus say?
Because I can't base it on my experience, though I have one,
Because your experience and my experience is going to be different.
The only thing that's consistent is what Jesus says.
And he said to that same group, if you do not receive me, you will die in your sins.
So I ask us this question, do we know that Jesus is the, the only begotten son of God?
He's not a great teacher.
He's not a good model.
He is God in the flesh who has come to reveal God's will.
And the point he makes in this whole paragraph is that if you are children of Abraham, you would be celebrating me being here too.
But as it is, you're doing exactly the opposite.
You want to kill me because if I kill the messenger, I kill the message, right?
They answered him, we were Abraham's descendants.
Our salvation is not
secured in how many bibles I have, how many generations my family has been in a church.
It isn't conditioned upon whether or not I wear Christian paraphernalia or listen to Christian music.
The only thing that secures me is the word of Jesus Christ that he died on the cross, paid for our sins and was raised again.
That's my security.
And so when I counsel young kids, like my son, I'm going to use him as the example.
When he was saved a few years ago, I asked him, son, how do you know that you have been saved?
And he said, because of Jesus, not because of what he did coming down to an altar or praying.
He said, it's because of what Jesus did.
And I think we forget that.
We forget like these guys where we have never been enslaved to anyone.
They were celebrating the feast of booths.
which was a celebration in the fall when they would commemorate the wilderness wandering.
And so they were celebrating that they had been rescued from Egypt as what slaves.
And so they're going all the way back to Abraham.
It's like my identity is wrapped up that I'm a child of Abraham, but they forgot that children of Abraham eventually ended up in Egypt.
as slaves, and God made a way for them to get out.
They forgot that after Rehoboam became king and the kingdom split that the northern kingdom in 722 BC was taken over by the Assyrians.
And then the remnants of Judah and Benjamin were taken into deportation over a period of years from 605 to 586 BC into Babylon.
And then they, some of them returned and they were still under the Greeks and now they were under the Romans.
And he's looking at them going, you've never been enslaved to anyone?
Are you making your own choices?
Are you living out your life in freedom?
And they had to answer the question, no, because their people had been enslaved for a long time.
But he's talking about the spiritual side.
They were dead in their trespasses.
They knew what the Old Testament said, but Old Testament revelation is standing in front of them and they couldn't accept Jesus.
They could not understand the gravity of their sin.
In fact, he was challenging them to think about being an authentic disciple.
And this is what I define as an authentic disciple of Christ.
It's someone who abides, which means to live and remains in Jesus and in
His Word.
Where did I come up with that?
Well, I'm glad you asked.
John 15, 7, 3, 8 says this.
If you abide in me and my words abide in you, ask whatever you wish, it'll be done for you.
So I want a new Lego set.
Would y'all pray with me?
No.
My Father is glorified by this.
So it's not us asking for stuff.
We're asking that God will do a work through us that we might be the light of the gospel to the world.
But look what he says, that you bear much fruit, so prove to be my disciples.
You see, when I'm stuck in sin, when I still have one foot stuck in the life that I used to live, I'm impotent.
I'm held down.
I'm in bondage.
And just like the pockets in the south where the plantation owners were still whipping their slaves and making them do what they want to do, Satan is doing the same thing.
to you and me when we ignore the gravity that sin presents.
It's all around us.
You know how I know sin is around us because I smell death.
I smell suffering.
I see evil.
What about you?
Do you see the same things or am I just kind of imagining that?
When I turn on the TV, I see a lot of destruction.
How many of you remember Neil Bortz?
A few of you do.
All right.
Neil Bortz was on WSB for many, many years.
And he gets on Twitter a lot.
And about every other day he will, he will put on there, look at the culture of violence.
Every other day he says, one time in tweet, I wake up seeing who's dead again in Atlanta.
It's all around us.
We know sin because of the repercussions of sin.
And I don't want to live in that.
I want to live in the freedom that Christ has brought to me into you.
He told that same group,
You are from below.
I am from above.
That's what they couldn't handle.
He kept saying, I came from the father.
I came down from above, which meant he was saying, I am God.
And of course they were offended by this, but you are of this world and I am not of this world.
Therefore I said to you that you will die in your sin for unless you believe that I am he, you will die in your sins.
How grave is our sin?
It's death.
And for us today, if we want to experience that freedom, we can't be like an Indian monkey.
I saw a monkey on my vacation a few weeks ago.
No, I'm not talking about my kids, but we went rafting down the Silver River.
Silver Springs went kayak and it was so cool, but there was a monkey down drinking at the water's edge and they warned us, don't mess with it.
So we didn't, but it was just freaky to see a monkey in the wilderness.
But in India, supposedly when they wanted to catch a monkey, they would take a coconut and hollow it out and put a hole in it, just big enough for a monkey to reach his hand inside of it.
And they would put rice or something inside of the coconut.
Well, then the monkey would reach inside wanting that object, and it's almost like an episode of SpongeBob SquarePants, grabs it, but when you make a fist, you can't pull it back out of the hole.
But they were so bent on holding on to that rice,
then not all that a hunter had to do was walk up and grab the monkey.
And you and I are no different.
When we hold on to our sin past, we're stuck in that.
And a lot of times we forget that experiencing freedom begins with understanding that sin has enslaved everyone.
Don't get so far removed from being saved that you forget that Christ saved you from sin.
See, he answered and he said, everyone who commits sin is a slave of sin.
And I've kind of convinced we're either a slave of sin or a slave of Christ.
Throughout the New Testament, Paul would call himself a do-loss of Christ, a slave, someone who had been indentured back into service.
They had freedom because they're sins that had been forgiven, but God is beckoned and call us to live a life in that freedom.
It says the slave does not remain in the house forever because he's a slave.
But every one of us in this room, we are and have been sinners.
Do you not know that when you present yourself to someone as slaves, this is Romans chapter six, 16 through 18, to someone as slaves or obedience, you are slave to the one whom you obey, either of sin resulting in death or of obedience resulting in righteousness.
So we're going to present ourselves to someone.
But if we continue presenting ourselves to the taskmaster Satan, sin will continue to have its hold on us.
He goes on to say, but thanks be to God that through, that though you were slaves of sin, you became obedient from the heart to that form of teaching to which you were committed.
And having been freed from sin, you became slaves of righteousness.
What form of teaching?
Well, Jesus said in the baptism form, go into all the world, baptizing, teaching them to obey what I have commanded you.
And for us today, when we recognize the gravity of our sin and we recognize that we have all sinned,
Then it's a little bit easier for us to understand that we are in absolute freedom.
Take a look at some of these verses.
Galatians five, one, it was for freedom that Christ set us free.
Therefore keep standing firm and do not be subject again to the yoke of slavery.
See, it's up to me, it rests on me.
I can either choose to follow Jesus or be stagnant in my walk.
And when I'm stagnant in my walk, it makes me vulnerable to what sin would then do in my life.
Galatians 5, 13, for you were called to freedom.
You were called to freedom.
Brothers, don't let it, don't do not turn your freedom into an opportunity for the flesh.
In other words, what he's saying is, don't live in your freedom is this way.
Hey, you know what?
I've been forgiving to my sin.
I'm just going to do whatever I want to do.
That's not what he's called us to do.
He's called us to walk in that freedom, pursuing and following Jesus.
And then lastly, Peter says it twice in first Peter and the getting in second Peter.
Act as free men and do not use your freedom as a covering for evil.
When you and I look at this, there's a couple of things.
Number one, I can easily slip back into bondage.
I have to embrace the independence that Jesus has given to me.
And it starts with this experiencing freedom begins with recognizing the one who sets you free.
It's almost like we backed into the main truth.
But when I see the gravity of sin and I understand that all of us have, have sinned, then I understand that there's only one way I can be set free.
And that's for the one who died from me, sets me free.
The sun remains forever.
So if the sun makes you free, you are free indeed.
That's why that verse before it's not finding a nugget where you can go to the courtroom and pen the other side of the argument.
The truth here is that Jesus came from God and that the words he spoke were from God.
And by receiving that, not being Abraham's descendants, but by receiving that, you can be saved.
Jesus was not simply a man telling other men what he thought about things.
He was the son of God telling me in what God thought about those things.
So when I look at sin in my life, it's not up to my perception.
It's not up to what I think about it.
It depends on what God thinks about it.
When was the last time that you dropped to your knees and said, Lord, look at my life, examine my life, see if there be any wicked way.
I mean, does that sound familiar?
When was the last time you did that though?
When was the last time you said, Lord, I don't think I'm right with you.
I think I've drifted away.
We called it rededication in the past, but this morning you may be here.
First of all, you may be stuck in sin because you've never accepted Christ.
as your savior.
Would you believe and receive him today that he is the son of God who died on the cross to pay for your sin debt and by receiving him, I can have eternal life?
Or maybe this morning, you're like, you know what?
I've been struggling for some time, but I truly believe that when we rest on Christ, not in our own strength, not trying to do a whole bunch of good stuff to cover up my bad stuff, but I just take all of my bad stuff and say, Lord, here it is.
Would you take it from me?
That's when we can experience true freedom.
Our actions in response to who Jesus is reveals the attitude and the condition of my heart.
So when we talk about making disciples everywhere, they need to resonate because we understand the gravity from which we've been saved.
And there's a whole bunch of people around our church in this state, in this country, in this world that are still stuck in that sin.
And they need to hear the gospel of Jesus Christ.
Years ago, I remember watching on the news, an African-American NFL player being interviewed about the rioting that was going on in our nation.
And they were talking to this guy and they asked him, what's the solution that'll stop all of this division?
And this reporter was shocked because that NFL player looked at her and said the gospel of Jesus Christ will stop it.
She was expecting him to say a whole bunch of other political things, but he said the gospel.
of Jesus Christ will bring peace to those situations.
So this morning, true freedom is only found in Christ.
Am I living as one who has been set free or am I still living under the bondage of sin?
If you are, can I remind you that Jesus loves you so much that if we confess our sins, he'll take them away.
If I walk out of here still feeling in bondage, that's on me, but I can surrender that to him this morning, ask him to take that away.
and let me live in the freedom that Christ paid for.
Are we a true disciple or just a casual identifier?
If you're here this morning and you're stuck in your walk with Christ, my hope is that you would surrender everything to Him before you leave this morning.
Would you pray with me?
Fathers, we come to this time of invitation.
Lord, I believe maybe within the sound of my voice that there may be someone who doesn't know Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior.
And there is no formula
They must trust that Jesus is the son of God who died on the cross and was raised again so that their sins could be forgiven and they could inherit eternal life.
So Lord, I pray if that person is here this morning, right where they are, God, would you allow them that moment to put their trust in faith in you and receive Jesus as their savior?
Maybe some God in this room this morning has been saved and they need to make it public.
They need to come down and say, you know what?
I was saved last week or this morning.
and I need to follow Jesus in baptism.
Or maybe there's some people here this morning that's decided, concords my home, and I need to come forward and join this congregation.
Now pray, Father, as we move into this time that you would move and you would work.
Lord, I also challenge them, Lord.
Maybe they do need to rededicate.
Maybe they need to come down like we did earlier and drop to the knees at the altar and pray, God, would you take some of this garbage out of my life and set me back on the path of freedom.
Because, Lord, you're the only one that can set us free.
True freedom is found only in you, in Jesus' name.
Amen.
Would you stand with me as we sing the altars open?
Dusty and I will be down here on either side.
We'd love to either pray with you, talk to you.
If you are lost this morning, want to be saved?
If you want to come forward for baptism, whatever your need is, as we sing, would you come and join us in the front?